Course outline, May 2023

MATH 222: Calculus 3 (3 credits)
Description: In this three credit course, students will learn the techniques of multivariable
calculus required for a degree in the sciences. Students will extend concepts from Calculus 1
and Calculus 2 to a higher dimensional context. Applications will include ﬁnding the
instantaneous velocity vector of an object moving in three dimensional space, maximizing or
minimizing a function of two or three variables, and integrating over regions 2D or 3D.
Additionally, in the ﬁrst few lectures, we will introduce the Taylor series of a function, which
students will use to approximate complicated functions by simple polynomials.
Lecture time: MTWR: 11:05 am-1:25 pm
Lecture location: Leacock Building, room 26
Course instructor: Gavin Barill (gavin.barill@mcgill.ca, see “email policy” below)
Instructor ofﬁce hours: MTWR: 2:30pm-3:30pm, BURN 1031 or the hallway outside BURN 1024
Course website: We will be using MyCourses. Any announcements or course-related
information will be posted there.
Prerequisites: MATH 141. Familiarity with vector geometry or Corequisite: MATH 133
Restriction: Not open to students who have taken CEGEP course 201-303 or MATH 150, MATH
151 or MATH 262.
Textbook: The lectures will be following “Multivariable Calculus” (9th edition) by Stewart,
Clegg, and Watson.
Textbook note (older version): Please feel free to use an older version of the textbook if you
would like. The section numbers and question numbers might be different, but the content
should be the same. However, I might suggest problems from the textbook, so make sure
that if you have a past version that you are able to ﬁgure out which questions I suggest.
Textbook note (textbook from MATH 140/141): Stewart Calculus has many versions, and the
textbook you used in MATH 140/141 might have multivariable calculus in it. If your textbook
has chapters numbered 10 - 16 then your book has multivariable calculus in it and will sufﬁce
for this class. If you are unsure if your textbook is appropriate please come ask me after class.
Evaluation: Your ﬁnal grade will be calculated as the greater of the two options:
Option 1: Final grade = (WeBWorK mini-assignments)・5% + (WeBWorK assignments)・20%
+ (Midterm)・25% + (Final exam)・50%
Option 2: Final grade = (WeBWorK mini-assignment)・5% + (WeBWorK assignments)・20%
+ (Final exam)・75%
○
○
○
○

WeBWorK mini-assignments: Your grade will be the average of your best 12 of 16
mini-assignments. For details on the mini-assignments, see below.
WeBWorK assignments: There are four WeBWorK assignments, each of equal weight.
Midterm: The midterm will tentatively be held on Monday May 15th, out of class time.
Final exam: The ﬁnal exam will be taken on either May 31st or June 1st, it will be posted
at this link roughly two weeks before the exam.

WeBWorK mini-assignments: Because the pace of summer courses is so rapid, I have
designed the grading scheme to make sure that you are doing a small amount of daily
practice. On each day that we have lecture, I will release a mini-assignment held on
WeBWorK that will be due at 11:59pm that night. The mini-assignment will be short and
simple, and exists mostly to ensure that you are comfortable with the basic deﬁnitions of the
topics that were introduced earlier that day in lecture. I will aim to have it take no longer than
15 minutes. The mini-assignments will account for 5% of your ﬁnal grade, and the grade will
be the average of your best 12 of the 16 mini-assignments.
Email policy: Please ensure that “MATH 222” is in the subject line of your email, and that
emails are addressed to gavin.barill@mcgill.ca (my work email), and not
gavin.barill@mail.mcgill.ca (my student email). Email responses can be expected within two
business days. Any mathematics question should be asked in class, tutorial, or ofﬁce hours —
not email. A real-time conversation is a much more efﬁcient way to explain math. In addition,
questions regarding a WeBWorK assignment that are asked less than 24 hours before it is
due cannot be guaranteed a response before the deadline.
Regrade requests: Regrade requests regarding WeBWorK and the Midterm will be handled
in my ofﬁce hours only, not through email. For WeBWorK, please ensure you have double
checked your work and made sure you entered your answer correctly before asking if the
WeBWorK is wrong. Midterm regrades must be made within 3 days of when the grades are
returned to you.
A note on studying math: It is easy to think that you understand a math concept when
someone else explains it to you (i.e. in lecture, in tutorial, or while studying with fellow
students). However, we only discover whether we truly understand a concept when we try to
use that knowledge in practice. As such, only reading the textbook or reviewing lecture notes
is not a good way to study for this course. A much better approach is doing as many different
problems as you can until the concept is familiar to you.
Math Help Desk: The Math Help Desk is located in Burnside Hall room 911, and is open
Monday to Friday, noon to 5pm. It is staffed by people who are there to help you, please use it
in addition to ofﬁce hours.
Language policy: In accord with McGill University's Charter of Students’ Rights, students in
this course have the right to submit in English or French any written work that is to be
graded.

